ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
 General 
 Overview 
 Lumentum Holdings Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our”, “Lumentum” or the “Company”) is a global leader in optical and photonic technologies and an industry-leading provider of optical and photonic products based on revenue and market share. Our products are essential to a range of cloud, artificial intelligence and machine learning (“AI/ML”), telecommunications, consumer, and industrial end-market applications. We operate in one reportable segment as a single, integrated enterprise. See “Note 17. Operating Segments and Geographic Information” to the consolidated financial statements. 
 We disaggregate revenue by type of product, which are Components and Systems, and by geography. A Components product is defined as one of the individual building blocks that goes into creating a larger solution. It is typically not a complete solution on its own but rather a specialized element that enables system functionality. This includes semiconductor laser chips, laser sub-assemblies, line subsystems and wavelength management systems. These are supplied to customers who then integrate them into their own full system solutions. Components represent foundational parts that support or enable that system’s operation and include optical chips and subsystems that are supplied to cloud data center operators, AI/ML infrastructure providers, and network equipment manufacturer customers. 
 A Systems product is defined as a complete, stand-alone solution that delivers full functionality to the end customer. It is typically self-contained and ready to operate within a customer’s network or application environment. This includes optical modules, optical circuit switches, and industrial lasers such as short-pulse solid-state lasers and kilowatt-class fiber lasers. These products integrate multiple technologies and subsystems into a finished solution that directly addresses a customer’s needs. A system represents the end-product that can be deployed and used independently. 
 Our products enable high-capacity optical links for cloud computing, AI/ML workloads, and data center interconnect (“DCI”) applications, as well as for communications service provider networks. Our offerings support access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (intercity and global), and submarine (undersea) network infrastructure. Our products serve enterprise network infrastructure needs, including storage area networks (“SANs”), local area networks (“LANs”), and wide area networks (“WANs”). Demand for our products is fueled by the ongoing expansion of network capacity required to support cloud services, AI/ML processing, streaming video, video conferencing, wireless and mobile connectivity, and the internet of things (“IoT”). In addition, our industrial laser products are used for precision material processing across diverse industries, including semiconductor and microelectronics fabrication, electric vehicle and battery production, metal cutting and welding, and advanced manufacturing that emphasize greater manufacturing precision, flexibility, and sustainability. 
 2 
 Table of Contents 
 We have a global footprint that enables us to address global market opportunities for our products with employees engaged in research and development (“R&D”), administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities in various locations worldwide. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and we have manufacturing capabilities and facilities in North America, Asia-Pacific, and Europe. 
 Lumentum was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation (“JDSU”) on February 10, 2015. In August 2015, we were spun off from JDSU and became an independent publicly traded company through the distribution of our common stock by JDSU to its stockholders. 
 Since our spin-off from JDSU (now Viavi Solutions, Inc., or Viavi), we have completed a number of acquisitions, including Oclaro, Inc. (“Oclaro”) in 2018, NeoPhotonics Corporation and IPG Photonics’ telecom transmission product lines in 2022, and Cloud Light Technology Limited (“Cloud Light”) in 2023. These acquisitions have enhanced our product portfolio, broadened our revenue mix and strengthened our position to meet the evolving needs of our customers. 
 Our Industry 
 Our business is driven by end-market applications leveraging the performance advantages of advanced optical and photonic solutions. We operate within global markets characterized by robust, long-term growth trends that are increasing demand for our products and technologies. 
 The convergence of factors including the growing reliance on data transmission, the rapid adoption of AI/ML, and the increasing digitalization of society is driving expansion in cloud data centers and the demand for higher-bandwidth network solutions. Our products and technologies are at the forefront of these trends, engineered to support increased data volumes and computational loads while meeting the industry's need for advanced network capabilities. 
 Additionally, the manufacturing industry's pursuit of higher precision, innovative materials, and improved efficiency fuels demand for industrial laser-based solutions. Lumentum is well-positioned to capitalize on this trend through the provision of ultrafast lasers for micromachining and advanced material processing. In addition, we also produce laser emitters for 3D sensing applications in consumer electronics. 
 While we maintain a positive outlook on the long-term prospects for our products and technologies, we acknowledge the presence of industry and market risks and uncertainties, including fluctuations in supply and demand, that have led to volatility in our business and financial performance. 
 Industry Conditions 
 Through fiscal year 2024, we experienced significant fluctuations in demand as customers delayed projected shipments or built up inventory in response to supply shortages and then brought down inventories as supply chain constraints eased. Our revenue fluctuated in response to these changes in demand and our margins were adversely impacted as we were not able to fully recover costs, such as underutilized manufacturing capacity. However, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, network equipment manufacturers normalized inventory levels; and since then, we have seen increasing demand from AI and cloud customers as they continue to expand their data centers, driven in part by the continued advances in cloud and AI infrastructure. This demand is outpacing our current supply which has required us to make decisions on supply allocation. We are investing in manufacturing capacity, both internally and with contract manufacturers, to meet demand. 
 Our supply chain is complex, and we need to manage supply of certain components required to build our products while confronted with fluctuating demand from our customers. From time to time, we experience logistics and supply chain issues and shortages of the types of components we and our customers require in our products, and when we experience these shortages, we have had to incur incremental supply and procurement costs in order to increase our ability to fulfill demands from our customers . 
 Due to worldwide operations, we and our customers are also subject to risks relating to the global trade environment. We are actively monitoring and assessing the global trade environment, particularly with respect to various proposed and enacted changes in tariff regulations and trade restrictions. The ongoing uncertainty surrounding trading policies, including the potential for additional tariffs, restrictions related to our customers and retaliatory measures by non-U.S. governments, continues to create a volatile environment that could disrupt our operations. The imposition of tariffs on certain imported goods and materials and export controls on critical components may increase our costs and place upward pressure on the cost of goods sold, which, in turn, may reduce our gross margins if we are unable to pass these costs onto customers through price increases. 
 For more information on risks associated with supply chain constraints and customer inventory, as well as tariffs and other trade restrictions, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 
 3 
 Table of Contents 
 Geopolitical Developments 
 As a global business with operations spanning diverse geographic regions, we are exposed to geopolitical risks. Fluctuations in the geopolitical landscape, including war, military conflicts, changes in export regulations, the effects of heightened, scheduled, or proposed tariffs, and shifts in national priorities and foreign relations policies, can significantly impact our business. For instance, modifications to trade restrictions and export regulations can adversely affect both product demand and our ability to supply customers, which would harm revenue and profit margins. Moreover, disruptions in our customers' supply chains due to geopolitical events could reduce or delay their demand for our products, ultimately impacting our revenue and operating results. 
 For more information on risks associated with the change in geopolitical landscape and regulatory actions, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 
 Markets 
 We maintain leading market positions in our fast-growing optical networking markets through our extensive product and technology portfolio and close relationships with a wide range of market-leading customers. We provide a wide range of optical and photonic components, modules, and subsystems that support high-speed, high-capacity transmission of data over fiber optic links in cloud data centers, AI/ML, enterprise and communications services networking. Our customers include cloud and network service providers, AI infrastructure providers, and network equipment manufacturers (“NEMs”). Within data center and AI/M applications, our products enable high-speed interconnection across networked servers, AI accelerators, storage, and switches. Within communication service provider applications, our products support high-capacity access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide) and submarine (undersea) optical networks. 
 Within the industrial market, our diode lasers serve as pump sources for high-power fiber lasers used in metal fabrication and other demanding applications. Our ultrafast lasers cater to industries such as printed circuit board manufacturing, semiconductor processing, electric vehicle battery production, solar cell production, and flat panel display fabrication, where precise micromachining is essential. 
 In the consumer electronics market, our laser light sources are integral components of 3D sensing cameras used in smartphones, computers, and other consumer electronics devices. These 3D sensing capabilities enable applications such as biometric identification, augmented and virtual reality, and computational photography. 
 Trends 
 The convergence of cloud computing and AI is driving rapid innovation and expansion in optical hardware for hyperscale operators. The immense computational demands of training and running AI models are shifting infrastructure from traditional copper interconnects to high-speed photonics. Concurrently, surging data traffic from video streaming, search engines, e-commerce, and cloud services continues to fuel the data center expansion. 
 Photonic solutions offer substantial advantages over copper connections, including ultra-fast, high-volume data transmission and reduced electromagnetic interference, enabling data traffic to continue to scale to accelerate AI model training and enhance high-performance computing (“HPC”) efficiency. 
 To address these challenges, web-scale companies are adopting distinct optical architectures: 
 • Scale-Out Optical Solutions: Optical hardware connects individual compute clusters, servers, and switches across the broader data center network to manage massive parallel workloads. This includes the adoption of 200G lane speed optical components that double data transfer rates compared to traditional 100G lanes. 
 • Scale-Up Optical Solutions: High-speed photonics and optical switches are deployed to directly cluster and interconnect GPUs and AI accelerators within the compute fabric, maximizing cluster efficiency and processing speeds. 
 • Scale-Across DCI Solutions: High-speed data center interconnects (“DCIs”) are constructed to enable seamless, low-latency data exchange across geographically dispersed data center units. This scale-across capability optimizes resource utilization by allowing cloud operators to leverage and balance computing power across multiple disparate locations. 
 The exponential growth of data across industries also drives the expansion of long-haul, metro, and access networks. Dense wavelength-division multiplexing (“DWDM”) technologies are being leveraged to increase data speeds while reducing costs. High-end networking equipment must now handle both legacy and internet protocol traffic while meeting stringent requirements for bandwidth, scalability, speed, reliability, compactness, and cost-effectiveness. 
 4 
 Table of Contents 
 Further, the dynamic nature of network traffic demands agile optical networks that adapt to changing conditions. Technologies like Reconfigurable Optical Add-Drop Multiplexers (“ROADMs”), wavelength-selective switches, and tunable transmission products facilitate remote capacity adjustments. This need for capacity expansion across DCIs, metro regional networks, and long-haul networks is further accelerated by the widespread deployment of 5G mobile networks and bandwidth-intensive applications is increasing data speed at the network edge.
